Victor Wu

final projection reflection

Overall, I am really proud of what I was able to accomplish through my major project. From my initial vision of the project I was able to surpass what I thought I would have been able to create. For the longest time, I wasn't sure how far I would get and whether or not I would even be able to create a working ai for gomoku but I eventually got to a spot where I was satisfied with the state of the ai.

The most challenging part of the project was determining how to get the ai to work in the first place. Even just having the computer alternate moves with the player was quite challening at the beginning. The most difficult and most reqarding portion was having the computer able to pick out and save the move that yields the highest score (based on the conditions I layed out on evaluating the board state). It was definitely challenging to not only to create how the score was calculated, but then to also save the information of the highest scoring coordinates to be called by the ai. The maps unit that we did in class definitely helped me determine a way to save the information. Much of the information that I saw online was both really confusing and quite complex. It was definitely a good feeling to be able to apply the core concepts regarding mapp from class to help me surpass this hurdle. Once I was able to save the coordinates into the map, adjusting the values was much simpler.

If I were to start this project again, I would definitely build it with how I implemented board score and other ai elements in mind. Initially, although I knew that I wanted to create an ai, I did not know how I was going to do it so the first version of my project(player vs. player) was quite ineffeicient with regards to adding an ai component. Building the project from the start with how I would score board states and record moves would have made the process more efficient since a lot of time was spent on trying to maintain my old code while re-doing certain portions of it to ensure it is compatible with how I wanted the program to function. I would also go all in on the Gomoku project from the very start instead of including the step of tic tac toe. Obviously since I didn't know if I could even make an ai at the time, it was a good decision but knowing that I am able to create the ai, I would have dedicated more time to enhancing the computer decision making.

Although there are definitely areas that I would like to improve, I surpassed my own initial expectations and accomplished everything I had on my "need to have list". I was able to implement my win detection, a player vs. player mode, an option for players to selection between player vs. computer, and a basic ai to alternate moves with the player. I even achieved a few of my nice to haves with the computer being able to calculate the board state along with polishing the interface and visual elements.